---
layout: post
title: Learning from Destiny
---
I like to think about the design that goes on behind the scenes of a game. When playing a game, I don't just reflect on whether or not I'm enjoying myself. Instead, I try to focus on why the experience is how it is, what the designers did that makes or breaks the game. I'm not going to sugarcoat: Destiny is not a great game. But it gets close to greatness, which makes its downsides stick out all the more. I think this is a wonderful learning experience. Because some parts of the game are so good, it makes the elements that don't live up very easy to identify and analyze.

In a way, Destiny serves as a brilliant deconstruction on the shooter genre. Due to its repetitive nature and flimsy story, the mechanics are spread out before the player. Typically, game designers construct their games to hide these flaws in the formula, to draw the player's attention away from the mechanical flaws. Game design is like a magic show. Misdirection is the game designer's best tool, and Destiny is like being backstage as the magician practices.

Half-Life 2, especially the opening level in City 17, is an excellent example of this kind of misdirection done well. Despite the player being forced down a linear corridor, the design of the level still gives a sense of scale to City 17. This is fueled by a couple design choices. First, you're being chased by the Combine. This creates tension and urgency as you flee, giving you less time to think about the linear nature of the path. Scripted moments, such as the Combine bursting through one door, forcing you through the other one, feel like organic developments, and not the game shepherding you. Additionally, there are no invisble walls. Valve's level designers used carefully placed environmental objects to communicate to the player which direction to go. As such, the player has an almost intuitive sense of direction through the level, while still feeling that the other paths, the cleverly-barricaded ones, conceal more playable environment.

Destiny's levels are almost exactly opposite of this. Despite their relatively-open nature, the player feels artificially constrained by the game. The environments in Destiny are all more open than in a traditional shooter, yet the player feels trapped, forced down the path the game dictates for them. Why?

My first time landing on Mars, I tried to take my Sparrow over a sand dune, in the direction of the nav arrow. However, when I hit the top of the dune, I was forced down the side of the dune into the narrow channel at the bottom, as if I had driven into an invisible mattress. Going over the dune would have put me in the same position as the end of the channel did, but the game forced me down the path, rather than allowing me to go my own way. These rubber-band walls, and their partner, the "Turn Back!" walls which give you four seconds to go back to where you're supposed to be, give a restrictive, almost claustrophobic feeling. These restrictions feel arbitrary, especially in a game whose story, thin as it is, sets you up as a brave adventurer and defender of humanity. It's hard to feel heroic when the game prevents you from driving over a sand dune.

The reason these channels are in the game is because of its nature as a persistent, online game. The narrow channels serve as the passages between the instanced zones in a map. Each planet's area is broken down into smaller instances, to prevent unnecessary server load. There's no point to adding more players to your instance if they're in a zone across the map from you, so the area is broken down into shards. This is no different from how most MMOs handle it. In World of Warcraft, each zone is broken down the same way, which is why, if you stand at the edge of a zone, you can watch players materialize and disappear as they cross the border (I haven't played WoW in several years, so this might be different now. However, I would be surprised). Guild Wars 2 makes it even more obvious, with large, swirling portals between the zones. But both of those games have very obvious edges to the zones. A zone will be bordered by mountains or some other type of visible barricade that the player instinctively knows they can't cross unless they find the passage through. Again, misdirection. Destiny does not do this with any consistency. Some zones, particularly the Moon and Mars, have no clear indication of where you're supposed to go and where you'll be bounced off of. Nothing kills immersion like expecting to be able to go somewhere, then hitting a wall.

Misdirection goes farther than level design though. It also extends to the gameplay and progression. Many people have complained about how Destiny's levels consist solely of shooting your way through some enemies on a linear path, deploying your little robot buddy to scan or hack something, and fighting off three waves of enemies while you wait for him to finish the job. And this is true. Every shooter out there has these same patterns, however. The difference is, Destiny makes it more obvious, and thus easy to deconstruct.

Everything in a game happens because of a trigger. The trigger can be anything: a time limit, the player performing a certain action or crossing a certain threshold, a certain number of enemies dying, etc. Typically, designers try to obfuscate the trigger. If the player is aware of the trigger, it pulls them out of the experience. They stop working towards their goal in a narrative sense, and start working towards it in a mechanical sense. When the player thinks about the mechanics in such a way, they're dragged out of the experience. Going back to my magic analogy, it's like noticing which hand the magician palmed the coin in. In a well-constructed show, the audience doesn't even think about such a thing. In an amateur show, it's impossible not to, because you keep catching the glint of metal from the left hand. The goal of the designer is to sweep the player up and give context to the mechanics, to hide them in such a way that they feel seamless to the player.

For the hold-a-point level setup, a staple of the FPS genre, let's look at the level from Halo: ODST where you have to get inside the ONI office (it's been a couple years since I've played the game, so I don't remember the exact mission name). You get inside the building and have to hold a point in the lobby, fighting against waves of Covenant while you wait for the elevators to arrive. Here, the trigger is a timer: after a certain number of seconds, the elevators arrive, and the player can progress. However, the player never thinks of it as a timer. They don't have the time to. Even as the elevator doors open, they're still being pushed on by waves of enemies. Progression does not feel like waiting for the timer to hit 0 and going through the next door. Due to the way the waves of enemies are structured, the amount of ammo in the level, and the number of health packs, it feels dramatic, like the elevators arrive just in time, right before you get overwhelmed and die. It's evident that the people at Bungie put a lot of thought into this moment, making sure you had just enough resources for the time. Too few resources, and the player would get frustrated, too many and it would lose its challenge.

Now look at Destiny. Interestingly, despite the narrative claim that your Ghost is supposed to be hacking a system or scanning an object, these wave-fighting moments are not structured around a timer trigger. Rather, they are tied to the number of enemies killed. The exact moment you drop the final enemy, Peter Dinklage announces, bored as always, "Got it." There is no attempt to obfuscate the mechanics: rather, they are bared right before the player. There is never a moment like I described above, where you escape through the door just in time. Every single wave moment in Destiny is structured identically. Kill the last enemy, the door opens. As such, the player stops thinking about the scene in context of the narrative, and thinks instead in context of gameplay. They become conscious of the bounds of the system. It never feels like you're waiting for the door to open at all, since it never feels like your Ghost is actually working towards anything. Instead, you're perfectly aware that to progress, you simply have to kill the enemies that spawn.

Several other design choices affect this as well. The enemies all spawn out of open, shadowy doors, very literal [monster closets.](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/MonsterCloset) They have no sense of presence, no context to their being there. They just appear. Additionally, the fights never seem truly difficult, in a fair way. Destiny gives missions different difficulties by changing the level of the enemies, and applying various modifiers to the mission. Both of these are very conspicuously game-like elements, and the way they change the difficulty also drags the player out of their immersion. Fights never seem naturally challenging. Playing a mission that is the same level as your character will typically not prove challening at all. Most enemies will drop with a few good shots, with the larger enemies taking a bit longer. However, ramping up the difficulty doesn't follow a fair curve. On the higher difficulties, you never feel like you failed because you weren't skilled enough. Enemies will kill you with one hit out of nowhere. Your shots will feel pitifully weak as you watch their health bars drain like sand through an hourglass. When you die, you aren't left with a feeling that if you change your strategy, that if you just try something different, you'll succeed. Rather, it feels like the game is stacking the deck against you. It feels unfair, which is another quick way to drag the player out of the experience.

I've highlighted here two major ways that Destiny provides a way to learn about game design. There are more that I didn't get to. Maybe I'll write a second post at some point. But there is one common theme between them: Bad design makes the player aware of the bounds of the system. Good design hides the boundaries so well that the players are never aware that they exist. What matters is making the player feel like what they are doing has an impact, creating that illusion of agency. Misdirection. Destiny has a great shooter foundation, but it doesn't matter how good of a pickpocket you are if you tell your target to look at their pocket.

For anyone interested in learning more about this subject, I suggest watching Extra Credits's video, [The illusion of choice.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45PdtGDGhac) They do a wonderful job of explaining this concept in broader terms, rather than focusing on one game as I have here.
