---
layout: post
title: Emergent Narrative
---

Recently, I've been playing [Sunless Sea](http://store.steampowered.com/app/304650/), from Failbetter games. Pulling from the same universe as their previous browser game, Fallen London (originally known as Echo Bazaar), the game is a roguelike where you play as a captain exploring an ever-shifting ocean full of mysteries and monsters. I've been really enjoying the game, it has a lot to recommend, but what has interested me the most is the way the game allows for player agency, and how it lends itself to an emergent narrative.

Agency in a game is simply the feeling that your choices matter to the world. This is what separates games from all other media. Movies and books are by necessity a passive medium. There is no way for the audience to respond to or change the course of the story in any meaningful way. Games, on the other hand, are replete with choices, from the moment-to-moment gameplay decisions (do I hide behind that rock, or this crate?) to sweeping narrative choices (see: basically every BioWare game).

Now, having agency does not mean that every single decision you make has to have a unique outcome. This is unfeasible in games because there is no way to account for every choice a player may make, and creating content that is only seen by a few people who make the correct series of choices is probably not the best use of time or budget. Giving players a sense of agency does not require that kind of adaptive narrative, or indeed any narrative at all. Consider Call of Duty's multiplayer, for example, where you get a sense of agency purely from picking your weapon loadout and perks.

Even in story-driven games such as Mass Effect, the feeling of having agency does not necessarily affect the choice on more than a surface level. The goal is to give the player the impression that they made an important choice--this doesn't have to go any deeper than some slightly modified dialogue from other characters.

The specific moment in Sunless Sea that prompted this moment was as I put ashore on an island somewhere to the east of Fallen London. Stepping off my ship, I was approached by two characters: a rat, and a guinea pig. Far off in the distance I could hear sounds of war, and the two rodents explained their factions were fighting over rights to the island, and I was tasked with choosing one or the other. On its own, this is a fine example of what I discussed above: both characters offered me the same reward of fuel and supplies, the only difference between the two being their various characterizations (the rat was an engineer for a group of rats fighting to build a republic, while the guinea pig was a noble in service to her guinea pig king). On its own, the choice was well-done, but not blog-post-worthy. What made it special had happened a bit earlier on, when I was creating my character.

During character creation, I chose a street urchin backstory for my character. The way that character customization works in this game is probably deserving of a post in itself, but another day. Having chosen my background, it came time to pick a name for my character. Thinking on my feet, I imagined a slight backstory for him, that living on the streets, he would have to scavenge clothes from whatever he could find in back alleys. Thus, I picked the name Rathide, giving him an instant sense of character and history. At the time, I figured that would be the end of it.

But when I met the rat on the island, he mentioned that part of the reason his rat-people sought to make a new republic for themselves was because back in London, rat-skin suits were apparently a very popular thing.

And it clicked for me.

I felt bad for him, and for his people. My own imagined backstory for my character suddenly came alive, as I realized he had been a part of this slaughter. In short, the game gave me the the tools, the foundation, to develop more of my character, external to the actual narrative within it.

This is the *emergent narrative* of the game, and for a game about exploration and choice, permitting emergent narrative is an important--I would argue essential--component of the game's engagement. Giving players the freedom to explore their character and the world they inhabit is key to delivering a satisfying, engaging experience.

A good game should spark the imagination of the player. It should grant the player's imagination more freedom, not less. I'm not arguing that every single game needs to offer a completely free world to explore. Indeed, many games benefit from having a structured, directed experience. But by granting the ability for the player's imagination to extend the world outside of the game itself, it lets the setting come to life, drawing the player in. I'm also not arguing that coincidental events like I described above need to happen for every single player. The key, though, is *limiting their potential to happen as little as possible.* Forcing it won't work.

The simplest way to describe emergent narrative is allowing the players to discover more about themselves, both as a player and as a character within the game, through the framework of the game. My story above is one such example of this, but there are many other ways this can be done. Conversational clues, world details, even the design and animation of the character can all hint at details of their past. By giving these hints, it allows the player to draw the dots on their own, rather than relying on overt dialogue (the old adage, "show, don't tell" is very much applicable here). Letting the players do some of the legwork makes them more invested in the world, makes them feel like they own some small bit of it and are a part of it, rather than an outside observer merely controlling an actor.

I'll be sure to write more on this topic in the future, as I've got some great examples from other games I've been playing of this kind of mentality as well. For now though, definitely check out Sunless Sea. It's a great game and the developers deserve all the success they can get.
