---
layout: post
title: day ten
---
Bright and early this morning, we went to teach English to the students of ノートルダム. The class was led by an American, Dean, who I feel was almost overplaying his American-ness for the students. Almost like a caricature of an American. I wonder if this is what being an expat does to you? Everyone expects you to behave a certain way, and so you learn to act like that. Does being away from your native language and culture, being regarded as a foreigner -- always -- make you act this way?

When I'm on the train or bus, I keep getting glances, especially from children who will even comment aloud about it assuming you can't understand, all the time, for being so obviously foreign. And for this two-week trip, it never really felt weird. I feel out of place as a foreigner, a tourist, and the looks that I get corroborate that feeling. But when you live as an expat, eventually you start to call here "home". You know you aren't Japanese, but still, you get used to it, you make friends and a life for yourself. But the looks never stop.

Talking with the students themselves was very interesting. We first met with one group of 7th graders, whose assignment was to interview us in English. The questions, mostly, kept conversation flowing. It was simple topics, such as favorite Japanese food, but some of the questions I was not prepared for at all. For example, they asked about our favorite bands or music, and it was really hard to define "hipster" for them, explaining that I listen to music that nobody knows because it's better.

The 10th graders, later, were much less forthright. It took a lot of effort to extract even basic information, while we were simultaneously expected to converse on much more difficult topics, such as our expectations vs reality of Japan and America.

For lunch, we visited an old friend of Sensei's, who reportedly makes "the best ramen in Kyoto." I don't have the expertise to corroborate that, but the food was incredible. 10/10 would eat again. Afterward we went back to Rakusei where sensei used to teach, and joined a cooking club to help make a big meal. Each of us was assigned to a group making a specific dish, and my group was preparing fish. Starting with a whole fish, I got to clean it, first removing the scales then cutting it open, removing the guts, and making fillets. This was an entirely new experience for me, and super cool to do. Somehow, Akky also found and joined us again.
