---
layout: post
title: day twelve
---
Today was the final full day of our trip. Starting very early from Kyoto, we caught trains to our route, over the Tateyama alpine route. This trip is made in several legs, and by several modes of transport as you go up, through, and over the mountain pass.

We started on a bus, leading up into the foothills of the mountain. From there, we transferred to a tram, powered by overhead lines. Despite still being a bus, this is technically considered a train, since it runs along a fixed route with its power provided by an outside source. This tram took us through a tunnel in the mountain, and when we emerged, we were at Kurobe dam.

Kurobe is a massive dam, sitting up in the mountains. Leading from the bus station outside to the dam itself was a steep climb of several hundred stairs, a hike made more difficult by the high altitude. Along the way, fresh springwater poured from certain areas of the walls, ready for drinking with provided ladles. This was some of the purest, best-tasting water I've honestly ever had in my life.

The dam itself was astounding, holding back the water into a massive lake between mountain peaks. Hiking trails lead around it, and boats would take people out onto the water itself. We had to keep pushing on, however, walking across the top of the dam and onward to the next mode of transport.

From the dam, we boarded a car that traveled at about a 45 degree angle vertically, bringing us up and through another mountain, then across a valley between peaks on a cable car.

After the cable car, there was one more tram bus before we reached the top station of Tateyama. This path is known for the massive snow walls, and although they had begun melting by the time we got there, the snow was still easily 15-20 feet tall. The bus down the other side cut through this massive snow wall, and the landscape slowly dissolved into green again as we descended.

Finally, we concluded our trip at an onsen in Kagaonsen. After two weeks of long walks, early mornings, and adventure, this was a wonderful conclusion. We had an all-you-can-eat buffet for dinner, then the evening was ours. Relaxing in the onsen was so calming, after a few minutes the initial awkwardness of being naked in a tub with strangers completely disappeared. It was a moment where it was completely okay to just sit and not say anything for a while. After, convened in the manga reading room at the onsen, drinking Asahi and reading.

The sun set over a lake, and lights of the city illuminated around. The evening was calm and clear. We were done.
