---
layout: post
title: day three
---
Today had a mercifully late start as Anki didn’t meet us at the hotel until 9:20 am. Clothes and shopping were hastily packed, to ship off to our next destination while we spent the day with the students from Rikkyo.

We set off, riding the train first to Shinjuku Station where we met up with the rest of the students. With 20 minutes until the next train left, they took us to the second floor of a nearby arcade where we all (12 or so) piled into a photo booth, one of those that does automatic beautifying, rendering faces oddly smooth and eyes preternaturally bright, not to mention the digitally-added blush.

This detour took a little long, and we had to run back to the station, even then only some of us making it onto the train. Jeff, Kelly, and Andrew, along with several Japanese students, were left behind, only Monique and I making it aboard in the company of Anki and two other students.

The train took us through beautiful scenery, passing a clear view of the ocean on the way to Kamakura, and the shinto temple located there. On the walk, we passed through an awesome outdoor market stretched along a narrow street, lined with food and small shops. I had a fried octopus patty, dango with red bean paste and strawberry, and also some honey ice cream, all of which was delicious.

Even the path leading to the shrine was lined with stands, selling things like candied fruit (I got candy-coated grapes for ¥150) as well as a bizarre activity for ¥200 where one had to lift a goldfish into a bowl using a flat paper net (the paper tore as I raised mine up), the end result of which I could not determine. The stand didn’t seem equipped to bag the fish as a prize, and I saw no one walking around carrying fish, so whether there was another prize or just the satisfaction of winning, I don’t know.

At the shrine, we did the traditional washing of hands from the well before tossing coins and praying to by bowing twice, clapping twice, and finally bowing one more time. There was also a fortune thing, where for ¥100 you could purchase a slip of paper with a fortune determined by shaking a box of numbered sticks and withdrawing one, then tying the paper to a nearby rack. Conveniently, they also came in English.

This process got me curious about the tradition vs the marketing of tradition. The authenticity of the procedure, is it preserved even through commercialization, or is this even commercialization or simple tithing for the sustenance of the temple? Are the fortunes a custom, or a manner in which to prey upon the human desire for validation through the recitation of broad, vaguely positive and purportedly deific sentiment? I’m not sure I have an answer.

From here, we went on, catching the train again to Enoshima, an island with another shrine on it. This time, I did not pray or purchase a fortune, but did greatly enjoy the scenery and atmosphere, despite my lingering thoughts on authenticity, even now, sitting amongst friends at a restaurant on Enoshima, looking out the window at the sunset over the beach and distant buildings.

After dinner, Kelly and Monique split off to return to Sakura Hotel, while Jeff, Andrew, and I made our great pilgrimage to Akihabara. My first glimpse, a furtive one, caught between buildings as the train pulled into the station, a window to a glowing realm of lights, J-pop, and hyper-stimulation.

Our first stop was outside the station at a Gundam cafe, to peruse the Gachapon. The Gundam gachas are actually really cool; they come as kits with about a dozen pieces and vary between 300-400 yen depending on size and complexity. A complete, miniature Gunpla experience, inside a plastic egg.

Down the main street, a glowing mecca of lights and sound, we found a store promising "DVD 本 GAME" and entered. The building was packed tight, narrow aisles lined with plastic-wrapped cases, PVC statues of anime figures, and memorabilia. Blippy electronic music pulsed from omnipresent speakers.

Next stop was a giant Sega arcade. Side note, the claw games are rigged. I tried to get a plush toy of the chef cat from Nekoatsume, but the claw grabbed then immediately slid over and let go of the toy. The hole it had to fit in was too small anyway. No way to win. Spent ¥500 between three machines to learn this.

The arcade's upper floors were more interesting. Many rhythm games, including my favorite, the Taiko drum game I had initially played at Anime Milwaukee back in March. Another I played had six buttons around a circular screen about two feet in diameter. Circles would start in the center and move outward towards a button, which you had to push in time. I played two very easy levels, enough to overinflate my sense of competency, and tried for my last song one from the "Level 10+ Expert" difficulty. I do not understand how people are capable of playing this with only two hands.

Around 23:00, the arcade closed and we headed back to Ikebukuro. On the train we watched a very drunk salaryman try to pick his nose, only to be repeatedly stopped by his girlfriend.

The "otaku" sector of Akiba was surprisingly smaller than expected. Outside the maybe five blocks of high activity, it simply became residential streets. At one point, we went up a small side-alley with stairs, and ended up on a foot bridge crossing a canal, apartment buildings beyond. A metro train passed by on another bridge up the river. It was remarkably quiet.
