---
layout: post
title: day six
---
This morning, exhausted from the late night, we embarked into Kyoto and to the Manga Museum. The day was warm but dry, with a decent breeze. I really like the feel of Kyoto. The wide streets and shorter buildings felt very reminiscent of downtown Madison, in a good way. Apparently, there's a building height limit in Kyoto, which contributes to this feel; the city is in a balance with its surrounding beautiful nature.

The museum was loaded with manga. I wish I had more of a chance to stop and try reading. Regardless, the workshop was really fun, and afforded our group chances to be amusing in our additions to the drawings we were assigned to provide detail to.

It's also really cool that the city has this kind of resource for its populace. We saw a bunch of children who just came to the museum to read in the reading room or outside on the lawn for a while. In a way, it functions almost like an archive or library, but without checkout options. Having such a large, expansive collection of manga open to the public is incredibly cool.

After the museum, we ate at a restaurant across the street. Spilled a whole bowl of miso soup on my lap. Because of course I did.

After, we went to Ikenobo, the origin of ikebana or Japanese flower arrangement. There, we saw first Rokkaku-do temple, named for its hexagonal shape (the kanji for this name, 六角堂, translates literally as "six-cornered building"), which was thought to represent perfection (a circle being perfect, and a hexagon approaches that shape more than a traditional square building does). It was swarmed with pigeons, roosting in the rafters and their gentle purring filling the air with remarkable calm. Tucked behind larger buildings and off a narrow secondary (tertiary?) street, the whole area was very quiet for being in the middle of a city almost 1.5 million strong.

Behind the main temple were a couple ponds containing massive koi, as well as several swans. This was the birthplace of ikebana--the ikenobo being the monks who lived beside the lake and started with flower cuttings to channel divine energy, then later as a sign of hospitality, beginning in the 10th century and continuing ever since. The pond is now cement, and the temple burned down and was rebuilt a couple times, but it still stands in the same place--and still containing the stone that marked the center of Kyoto back when it was still called Edo, and was the capital.

After a brief tour of the Ikenobo museum, we went to the classroom and were shown an example of "proper" arrangement and clipping, before being set free with an assortment of plants to create our own.

I chose a smaller, lavender flower, resembling a small tulip, as the main focus. The rest of my arrangement was in accent to this, splaying off in either direction while the lone flower, partnered with an unbloomed bud, rose from the center, bare stalk, negative space surrounding. I was trying to capture my mentality in it, and I guess that succeeded, as our instructer remarked mine appeared "寂しい", meaning lonely or solitary.
