---
layout: post
title: day two
---

What I find fascinating about Tokyo is the sheer diversity of interesting things. Even down what we in America would consider alleys you find the buildings packed with storefronts. Many floors are utilized as well. While in America, only the ground floor is reserved for storefronts while above are offices or apartments, here you will find many stores stacked one above another. Last night, for example, the cat cafe was on 3F, stacked above an Indian restaurant and the Nakau we ate at. There is this beautiful sense that any alley, any corner, any staircase or elevator could lead you to brand new discoveries. Every space is realized efficiently and interestingly, and you feel like mystery and discovery surround you.

And this density is not concentrated. This is not the lone city center. Catch the subway to another station, and you will find yourself surrounded with just as much stuff, just as much opportunity and discovery and variety. To even really master just one neighborhood would take months, years. To do the same for all of Tokyo would take a lifetime, I am sure.

Today we went to Odaiba, a man-made island loaded with more stereotypically touristy attractions. On the train there, Sensei had us talk to a group of elementary school students on a field trip. They kept glancing at us, the blatant Foreigners, and talking about “the Americans” on the train. When I spoke to ask 「どこに行きますか？」(where are you going to?) the surprise on their faces was hilarious. They had zero expectation for the tall white guy to know any Japanese at all. You could see as their entire worldview and assumptions rearranged, gears turning as they stood shocked and silent for a full minute.

Eventually, they recovered, and mercifully the ensuing conversation remained at about my conversational/functional level as I fielded such difficult questions as 「どんな動物が好きですか」(which animal do you like?) and 「大学はどこですか」(where is your school?). It was very satisfying to hold an actual conversation in Japanese, despite the simplistic topic, as I had only so far used purely functional sentences such as ordering coffee.The kids were fascinated that I even knew as little as I did, and thanked us profusely when they disembarked to continue on their field trip.

On Odaiba, we first went to an earthquake awareness center, where we went through an exhibit designed to resemble a Tokyo street following the Big One. The persistent fear of this is palpable, now that I’m aware, in things such as the standardized exit signs directing people to emergency exits, and the kanji 災 meaning disaster, posted in most buildings explaining evacuation procedure. People are very conscious of the fact they are living on the brink of potential destruction.

Afterward, we had time to explore Odaiba. The area was not at all what I expected from the information packet and map we received yesterday. Those materials portrayed it as something like Navy Pier, a small, dense, touristy area with maybe a convention center or two. Instead, in odd contrast to everywhere else in Tokyo, it felt oddly spread out and open. Wide sidewalks and large expances of grass lined the streets, and the buildings, while massive in a manner not seen in America, were spaced apart and sat in the distance, colors muted by the haze of the day so they resembled behemoths perched on the horizon rather than actual components of the area.

Perhaps some of this loneliness was caused by the weather. Heavy rain in the morning steadily subsided over the day, but the impact on attendance was still likely significant. Large plazas, sprawling shopping malls, and massive broadcast/industrial buildings stood solemnly silent in the grey.

we broke for lunch at Venus, a mall themed Venetian with painted-blue-sky ceiling and fake marble columns. The food was perhaps the most rote that we’ve experienced so far, standard mall food court fare, and also the most expensive meal yet.

Afterward, we went to Miraikan, the Museum of Emerging Science. The demonstration of Asimo was fascinating, as was the giant display-covered globe showing a time lapse of the past days of weather patterns, data analyzed and provided by, to our great excitement, the University of Wisconsin. The museum offered an eclectic mix of themed exhibits, many whose purpose was opaque. Perhaps if we were capable of comprehending the Japanese signs it would have made more sense, although the English translations provided were on the whole good, but several of the displays, like one that projected a circle beneath you that would reach out and grab nearby people’s circles while odd music and pulsing blue-and-silhouetted-black graphics danced across the walls, defied all scrutiny.

By this point, group energy was waning. Following a detour by the life-sized Gundam statue and a quick run up a large set of stairs outside a building (only to discover, at the top, a One Piece-themed shop and cafe), we boarded the train bound off the island. From here, Sensei split off, returning to the hotel while the five of us students went on my personal quest to Itoya in Ginza.

The store was incredible. I wanted more time that courtesy to my companions permitted. It was full of notebooks, pens, art supplies, an astoundingly vast assortment of stationery needs. They had a whole floor dedicated to a design-your-own-notebook section, complete with staff members whose job title was Paper Concierge (!!). There, I bought a Pilot Prera and a set of Iroshizuku inks, colors I’ve been wanting for quite a while.

Before coming back to the hotel, we had one more stop: the Pokemon Center. Finding the place was quite the adventure in itself. While gathered around Jeff’s phone in Ginza, a lady asked if we needed help, clearly sensing our confusion. Then, one packed train ride later, another woman in Higashi-Ikebukuro Station offered to accompany us as far as the mall, to which we readily agreed.

The Pokemon Center had many things to buy as well, perhaps the cutest of which being their monthly “Pikachu Pair” stuffed toy, June’s depicting two Pikachus in raincoats huddled under an umbrella. Ultimately, I bought a hoodie with a pixel art Pikachu on the back, and a notebook with an illustration of Pikachu on a tree branch captioned “in the woods”. At a bookstore nearby, I also got a copy of Battle Royale in Japanese. Way too advanced for me to actually read, courtesy the kanji. Someday.

We then returned to the hotel, stopping buy a 7-eleven (seriously they are everywhere, there’s two on the 10-minute walk from Ikebukuro station to Sakura Hotel alone) and bought Onigiri for dinner.

Tomorrow, we meet back up with the Rikkyo students. They have a day planned for us, which should be very interesting. Then, the next day, we leave early on the Shinkansen, bound for Hiroshima!
