---
layout: post
title: day eleven
---
Today was two major stops: the first, Kinkakuji,, the golden temple in Kyoto (spoiler alert: it is only gold leaf, not solid gold), and then Nara, home of the Nara deer and the largest Buddha statue in Japan.

Kinkakuji was really pretty. The approach to it takes you around a lake dotted with small islands, each host to a single carefully-pruned tree. The temple itself rises in the distance, glittering even in the mellow light of the persistent cloudcover of the day, rain falling softly on the placid surface of the lake. This was once built as a villa for a Shogun, with smaller buildings such as a tea hall orbiting this central building.

Amusingly we were also approached by a group of students there, sent to interview tourists. We answered a couple questions, and took a group photo.

Nakau for lunch, where I sadly left my umbrella. Then, we caught a train to Nara, which took about an hour, during which I dozed. I need a good solid night's sleep.

From Nara station, it was about a 2km walk to the deer park, down a central street. A man was putting on a street concert, and small corner shops sold Nara merchandise branded with the creepy Nara deer-man mascot.

The deer were docile, but very pushy. Stands sold packs of "しかせんべい", small cracker-like wafers of deer food. Feed one deer, another three will show up. And they chase you down. I watched as a little kid ran screaming, having run out of deer snacks, as the deer closed in around. They would also come up behind, butting at backs and nibbling backpack straps.

After the deer we went to a massive wooden building housing the Buddha. The walk up to it takes you through a large gateway area, flanked by two guardians of Buddha, one on either side. Then, a long stone pathway leads up to the central structure, giving you time to appreciate the true scale of it. Inside was cavernous, with this huge Buddha in the middle, a smaller one to either side.

On the train back, I slept again.
