---
layout: post
title: day nine
---
Today we went to the Kyoto Peace Museum, first attending a lecture basically explaining the history of the museum and the university that runs it, Ritsumeikan. The university used to be a militaristic academy, pushing young Japanese into joining the army circa WWII. Following the war, wracked with guilt, the college changed its mission, pursuing democracy and peace. The museum was interesting, housing many wartime artifacts as memory of the damage caused by war. The perspective was unique as well, as I have grown up knowing only the American narrative of victory, and that informs our cultural identity to this day.

In the afternoon, we went to Rakusei, the boys school where Takahashi Sensei had taught English for 18 years. We met with the English club, and spoke with them for a while, then Colette, an expat teacher at the school who got there soon before Sensei left, and is a student of chado, performed a tea ceremony for us, assisted by the tea club at the school. Kneeling for so long is incredibly uncomfortable, but the ceremony itself was fascinating. The formal rules, the politeness, and the tradition are all very deliberate, and have a storied history. Experiencing the ceremony was certainly a memorable experience, and the purpose of it is indeed to be that one meeting of people, perhaps never to meet again, but to enjoy that moment together while it is.

We also saw some other clubs at the school, including kendo and kyuudo, and even got to try them ourselves. We also made friends with one student named Akky who wasn't even supposed to be with us, but joined us at lunch and then tagged along for the rest of the day. He was really awesome and friendly, and seems destined for great things.
