---
layout: post
title: day eight
---
Mercifully, we had no plans today, and got to sleep in. I woke around noon, and we embarked around 1:30 pm, going first to a Buddhist temple, Kiyomizu. Leading up to the temple were narrow streets lined with shops stocked with touristy souvenir-type things. We're talking things like little cat figures, plastic geisha toys, that sort of thing. I'm getting used to it. It appeals to people, looking just authentic enough for a tourist while keeping prices low through mass production. Every shop basically has the same stock at the same prices.

The temple itself was as impressive as always, built up in the hills and hanging off a bit, suspended by long stiltlike beams. A waterfall also flows past, which visitors can catch with ladles and drink, for luck.

After Kiyomizu, we then went to Fushimi-Inari shrine, a mountain coated with small shrines, and literally thousands of torii gates, all painted bright orange. The torii can be sponsored by individuals and groups, and lined up over the path, so you walk through a tunnel formed by them during your hike. The further up, the more the crowd thinned, and the higher paths gave breathtakingly beautiful views of Kyoto, with Osaka in the distance.

Occasionally during the climb, the path would splinter off into these mazelike assemblies of stone monuments and shrines. Ancient, worn, and lichen-covered, they felt almost like they shifted around me. Stray cats abounded.

By the time we got back down, it was dusk, and we went to a kaiten-zushi place for dinner. I ate eleven plates. So much food, but a wonderful conclusion.
