---
outline: post
title: day four
---
When you learn a new kanji, you begin seeing it everywhere. It happened previously with 災 and it has again with 消, meaning "to vanish".

I picked up this kanji from a book title at the station bookstore while waiting for the Shinkansen: "世界から猫が消えたなら", or "What if Cats Disappeared from the World". Apparently this book has been made into a movie as well.

Then, in the station, I saw it in the word for "fire extinguisher". I quite like the sound of a "fire vanisher". Then I saw it again on the package for my Frixion pens, talking about what temperature the ink vanishes at, and that if made cold to -10c, how the ink will reappear. I have not tried this myself, but I'm curious about its efficacy.

We caught the train to Hiroshima today, ferried from the station via taxi to the Hiroshima Peace Park. In the rain, shielded by umbrellas, we got a walking tour of the park. The pain of the event was palpable. The A-bomb dome, burnt out and scorched, walls crumbled, stood as a reminder of the devastation, solemn in the slate sky and haze of rain.

Perhaps the most affecting location, in part for its understatement, was the monument erected at the hypocenter, 600m above which Little Boy was detonated. A black marble plinth held a simple plaque, and looking up into the gray one could imagine the fire and destruction.

After the tour, we went through the museum, full of artifacts belonging to the victims of the bomb. Each also had an audio track accompanying, telling the story of its owner. One always thinks of tragedies such as this like a statistic: X people dead, Y buildings collapsed. The museum, while featuring that as well, had a surprising and powerful emphasis on the human stories. I liked that.

For dinner, we had Hiroshima-style okonomiyaki, a massive 10-layer dish grilled on a large griddle, with batter, egg, cabbage, meats, noodles, and more inside. This was absolutely incredible food. It was hot, varied, and cooked perfectly. The table even included a sunken hot surface to keep the food the right temperature, and is self-served from there onto plates with small metal spatulas.

Following dinner, we explored a covered shopping area nearby (confusingly, these are referred to in Japanese as arcades, distinct from my usage of arcade to mean a game center), spending most of our time in a Taito Game Station, which also had Nekoatsume gachas. I bought six. ¥300 each. Between Kelly and myself, we almost managed a complete set, but sadly the John Wayne cowboy kitty remained elusive.

We stayed the night at a Ryokan, sleeping on futons laid down on a tatami floor, and wore the traditional robe-like Yukata. They even had a hand-written welcome sign left out for us. Coming back to the Ryokan after our evening out, we passed again through the peace park, the rain of earlier subsided, the paths we walked before gently illuminated by streetlights and trafficked by residents walking their dogs.
