---
layout: post
title: day seven
---
Today, early in the morning, we had to all give a speech. The school we're staying at, ノートルダム, is, as aforementioned, a Catholic, all-girls middle school. Every morning at 8:15, it turns out, they have a morning assembly...thing, and we had to speak at it, in both Japanese and English, saying a few words about ourselves and our hometown. It was terribly awkward, and I apparently spoke too quickly on my English segment. But who can blame me.

From there, we caught taxis to a Zen Buddhist temple, where one of Sensei's old English students is now deputy head priest. I found this experience exceptionally refreshing. Following a tour of the grounds, seeing the gorgeous gardens and learning their philosophical significance (such as the rock garden with 15 stones, arranged so all 15 are never visible at once. 15 represents perfection, and so only by moving and changing perspective can you finally count to 15), we were taught proper meditation technique and given 15 minutes to do so.

Even this short time brought so much quiet to my mind. I need this more in my life. Philosophically, I love a lot about Zen. Mixed with some good old Stoicism, I may finally begin to form a defined set of beliefs. A lot of these ideas, I've been orbiting for years, but I feel almost ready to try bringing them together and defining them.

Following meditation, we took a train up into the foothills to Seika University. An arts and liberal sciences college, the main courses of study all are some form of art or design. For lunch, the school had prepared a buffet-style meal we enjoyed with some of the students of the university. They spoke the least English of anyone we've met so far (one girl, with the best english, said she had been studying it for a month (!!)), so we realyl had to stretch our limited Japanese ability. And for the most part, it worked, and we had limited but good conversation.

After lunch, we attended a lecture by an American PhD student at Seika, researching anime. His thesis was on comparing pacing and plot structure between anime and traditional Japanese theater, especially Noh. While interesting, his presentation didn't feel quite finished. The ties to Noh were circumstantial or tangential, and he didn't really contrast his point with Western media at all, which was surprising since he started by saying he was trying to create a framework by which to assess how anime functions differently from other animation. Indeed, when asked by Jeff how his thesis about the structure of anime was different and similar to Joseph Campbell's monomyth, he said he did not know of it. This seems a remarkable oversight for a PhD student studying storytelling structure, like a psychology doctorate not knowing of Freud.

We went on a tour next, and saw a lot of student work around campus. These are some talented students. At the end of the tour, we stopped by the campus store and bought various art supplies, including the brush mens we had used at the manga museum the day before.

In evening, we walked around Kyoto, visiting shrines as the sun fell and the lanterns lit, creating an ethereally gorgeous setting. The shrines were beautiful, in the evening even more so, creating views befitting postcards or travel brochures. After, we ate dinner at a little basement izakaya, ordering sashimi and yakitori to share around.
