---
layout: post
title: day zero
---
My first view of Japan was last night, riding the Skyline into Tokyo from Narita airport. My train car was nearly empty, and I was exhausted, having followed the advice to stay awake for the entire 13-hour flight, to reset my clock and avoid jet lag.

I was running almost blind in trying to get to my AirBnB, the magnitude and import of the trip having weighed so much on me in the leading days that I was rendered almost functionless at the thought of it. Coming upstairs from the station, I found myself surrounded by neon, tall towers lit up with bustling crowds between. I felt completely lost, and it was beautiful.

The train maps were ultimately fairly easy to figure out. I knew the name of the station I was supposed to go to, and the maps in the train stations are very well laid out. Once you find your destination, it has a price listed below it, telling you the cost of the ticket there. One train ride away, and I arrived at my AirBnB.

Exhausted, I fell asleep almost immediately. I was here.

Come morning, my first mission was to get to Sakura Hotel, to drop off my bags with Sensei before setting out on my own for the day. I felt like such a jerk dragging my giant duffel bag on the metro, trying to maneuver through the morning crowds on the train. Sensei was waiting in the hotel lobby, there to welcome us as we all made our way. I was the first to arrive.

I spent the day then on a pilgrimage to the Apple stores, visiting both Shibuya (where I saw the Hachiko statue as well as the massive pedestrian intersection) and Ginza, home of the tallest Apple Store in the world, and also the first flagship built outside the States.

After this solo adventure, I caught the train back up to Sakura Hotel in Ikebukuro, where the others had all arrived as well. Dinner was at an Izakaya, with Scott, another UWM student. It was a party, a celebration of the first true day here, a chance to all come together, share a bottle of sake, and prepare for the two weeks to come.
