---
template: post
title: day five
---
Come morning, a Japanese breakfast (fish, miso soup, raw egg, rice, natto) was waiting for us. I persist in my attempts to try natto every opportunity I get. I persist in not developing an affinity for it. It is not that I hate the taste; it's altogether mild. It simply tastes like something that has been buried underground for a very, very long time.

After breakfast we caught the train to Miyajima, a shrine built on the shore of an island, suspended on stilts such that when the tide comes in the shrine itself appears to float serenely on the water, with mountains, verdant and calm, rising above. When we visited, however, it was low tide, affording a sandy path out to the base of the massive Torii gate, allowing us to place coins amongst the barnacles roosted on its foundation.

After Miyajima, we caught another train to Himeji castle, the largest wooden structure in Japan. This was really cool. Surrounded by rings of walls, a moat, and an army of stray cats, the castle pierced white into the sky.

Within the walls, we started up into the castle. It rose six stories, each one progressively smaller. Due to the white-painted walls and dark interior, it was a welcome respite from the sun and heat. The stairs were nearly vertical, more similar to a ladder than conventional steps, and grew steeper each successive story. From the top, the view was spectacular, gazing across the city of Himeji with gently rising hills nestled between buildings. The entire experience was breathtaking, from the construction, to the sheer awe of standing at its base, to the power felt when gazing from the upper window.

What continues to strike me about Japan is how all these ancient, cultural, traditional locations and artifacts are simply interspersed with the rest of society. You can pay for arcade games with an NFC-equipped subway pass, then two blocks away see a shrine that's stood for over a thousand years. The cultural depth, and interspersing of this depth, is something we simply don't have in the States, being such a young country. On the east coast, Boston especially, you can visit some parks which commemorate independence, but even that is only ~350 years old. In Himeji, the castle towers on a hill, visible down the main drag from the station a kilometer away. It's present, watching, a constant visual reminder of the history of the place. You cannot help but see it.

In the evening, then, we checked into Notre Dame, a Catholic all-girls school in Kyoto. Our home for the next week or so. We left our shoes outside, on a shelf near the front door.

For a few hours, we all hung out in Monique's room. Around 1:00 am, I was getting ready to go to bed, and decided to retrieve my shoes from outside. Andrew accompanied. On coming down to the first floor, a small box on the wall was blinking green and repeating some phrase in Japanese. We got our shoes, when Monique came down to tell us the noise was happening through the whole building. We ran back upstairs and got into bed, and immediately heard sirens coming from outside. Turns out, the security system had motion detection, and automatically dialed out to the Kyoto police as well as private security.

Andrew and I were both asked our names, but the Senseis did most of the talking. They took our names and birthdates, and we struggled through trying to use Japanese to explain that we were students and guests, not trespassers. After maybe 45 minutes of talking, we went back to bed, and that's how I had my first meeting with Japanese police.
