---
layout: post
title: day one
---

Today, following breakfast at the hotel cafe (Japanese bread is oddly perfect, each slice uniformly square without odd lumps or oversized air bubbles), we left as a group for Rikkyo University.

Only about a 10 minute walk from out hotel—Sakura Hotel, Ikebukuro—Rikkyo University is a small urban campus ticked in the winding, building-and-neon-lined roads of Ikebukuro. Amongst vine-covered brick buildings and oddly0triangular trees we attended a lecture by Takahashi Sensei’s old college roommate on the subject of globalization.

We were tasked to consider the implications of culture and diversifying business, and how products that succeed in one country can fail terribly in another. The professor’s case study was Ben & Jerry’s ice cream. Well-loved in America, and prized despite its cost for the quality and care put into its ingredients and production, Ben & Jerry’s should have been a hit in the new market of Japan, yet it failed terribly because in Japan, ice cream is mainly given as a treat to children, a demographic lacking in disposable income and a taste for the finer things.

For lunch, we stopped by a small noodle place nearby. It is interesting, all of the restaurants have computerized ordering. You put money into an ATM-sized machine with a massive touchscreen, then the machine returns a ticket you pass to the chef. It feels very futuristic and yet simultaneously oddly analog with the printed ticket, resembling a train pass. As modern as Tokyo is, it has a remarkable feeling of organic growth that, in a way, tells the story of its own development through a selective lack of modernization.

For instance, central A/C does not seem to exist. Every room I’ve seen has a wall-mounted room unit that is itself very advanced, with motorized baffles and such, but central A/C was not built into the buildings (many built in the 50s during the reconstruction following World War II). For most places, A/C would not be cost-effective anyway, because shops, especially on the first floor, are open to the air. They do not, in many cases, have doors, but rather large iron grills used to lock up at night like garage doors, and when open are, literally, open to the outside, the street, and the people.

Cash, also, is the predominant form of payment. Most places seem simply unequipped to handle card transactions. Which, in a way, is a blessing since it makes me more conscious of my spending.

The power lines, too, speak to the organic and rapid growth and lack of central urban planning in Tokyo. Dense, spaghetti-esque tangles of black cable run above, twisting and branching off to buildings. I can hardly imagine the system being comprehensible even to the electrical engineers responsible, but the masses of wire seem almost like tree rings, telling a history of growth and demand.

Following lunch, we went to the disaster prevention center, and went in a simulated earthquake. Tokyo is acutely aware of the reality that the “big one” could hit at any time, and the goal for this is to rehearse proper response should it happen. We knelt below a table as the platform was shaken by hydraulic actuators, and video reels of past quakes were projected on the wall behind us. Even the simulator was remarkably terrifying, as all we could do was hold unto table legs and assume a protective bow of submission. 30 seconds later, we stood up and walked out, laughing but—pardon the pun—shaken.

Returning to the campus, we met with the Japanese students, breaking into small groups to discuss which product, popular in either Japan or the U.S. but not in the other, should be brought over, using a SWOT analysis (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats).

My group started low on ideas, until one member brought up Frixion pens. As a pen and stationery nerd, this blew my mind, which the Japanese students found hilarious because of their ubiquity here. Basically, the pen uses a thermal-sensitive ink to make the writing erasable by way of a rubber tip on the other end. At 60c, the ink vanishes, allowing the friction of the “eraser” to clean away mistakes. This was incredibly cool to me. We have erasable pens in the States, but they are universally terrible, relying on abrasive erasers to basically rub the paper away with the ink. These, in comparison, are nondestructive, and even the rubber eraser does not get worn away.

Following our discussions, we had free time. One student, Anki, came with us, showing us some cool shopping around Ikebukuro Station. Mind-blowingly, Iroshizuku fountain pen ink, $35 a bottle in America and requiring mail-ordering from specialty sources, is only about $15 a bottle here, and can just be bought in stores.

Anki had to leave to get back for an evening class, but us five Americans—leaving Sensei at the hotel—continued on, visiting the massive Tokyu Hands (eight floors of store, any one of which would feel like a complete store in its own right, a startling and overwhelming variety of goods) before closing the night at a cat cafe. The cats were indifferent, so nonplussed by the idea of people they could not be bothered to turn and look at us. Regardless, I felt it a worthy experience, and it was nice seeing some cats. We ate dinner at the restaurant below—again the touchscreen ordering system—and returned for the night.
